What's up everybody? Welcome to your
daily digest for Tuesday, April 22nd,
2025, where I bring you fact-based,
nonensational, objective information
about what's happening in the blockchain
and cryptocurrency space. Today, we are
kicking off the Daily Digest with Paul
Atkins being confirmed and sworn in as
the SEC chair.
The confirmation took a little bit
longer than normal because there were
several financial disclosures that he
needed to file as a result of marrying
into a billionaire family. But he is in
and now we can get a little bit excited
for the libertarian leaning SEC chair.
Um there are about 70 crypto-related
ETFs applications that need to be
decided on this year according to
Bloomberg uh as of reporting for April
21st. And I just want to note a caveat.
While we are all excited to have Paul
Atkins in the SEC chair, let's not
forget that we were all really excited
about Gary Gendler because if you go
back to his MIT discussions, the guy
clearly knew what was going on with
blockchain and crypto and that turned
out to be a disaster. Speaking of
disasters, the Oregon Attorney General
has doubled down on its lawsuit against
Coinbase and it is also pointed out
several different cryptocurrencies and
tokens that they believe to be
securities including
avalanche unis swap near and wrapped
Luna but not Luna itself. So, I'm not
sure what to make of this, but it just
looks like a continuation of the
holdover from a Democrat-led SEC. And
Oregon, a very left-leaning state here
in the US, is doubling down on the
former administrations and former SEC
chairs
actions. The Ripple
RLUSD stablecoin is now live on a v3 on
the Ethereum mainet. RLS RLUSD is
Ripple's stable coin and now it lives on
both Ethereum and Ripple. Uh I just kind
of want to point out real quick this is
the stable coin chart that shows
227.23 billion in total market cap for
stable coins and the overwhelming
majority as we can see here are USDT and
USDC. though over the past month or so
RLUSD has continued to increase from
uh let's see uh 130 million on March 6
to around 293 million as of today. So
that's something to keep an eye on as
the competition for the stable coin
market continues to grow. spot. Bitcoin
ETFs witnessed $381 million of inflows
in the
past day, which marks the largest daily
inflow since January 30th. Um, and we
can also see at the time of recording
that there might be a little bit of
decoupling as Bitcoin continues to rise
and equities and stock markets are
facing a little fear, uncertainty, and
doubt. Now into some negative news.
Ethereum ETFs are hitting record low
asset under management as outflows have
topped 1.1 billion over the past 7
weeks. Um and though ETH as an asset is
kind of holding on right now to its
stableish price around
$1600, we've seen
um a lot of money flowing out of the ETH
ETFs. And so one of the reasons for this
might be um as we just saw a lot of
money flowing into the Bitcoin ETFs,
there's a clear narrative. Bitcoin is a
digital gold. However, ETH has a more
complex value proposition as a network
token and it is probably contributing to
investor hesitancy because you can't
give a single line statement for what
ETH is. Is it digital gold? Is it a
global marketplace? Is it an unstoppable
computer? Is it ultrasound money? It
still hasn't really doubled down and
found its narrative, and this might be
hard for Wall Street to gro.
Additionally, Galaxy Digital has swapped
$106 million worth of ETH for Salana as
Ether dominance continues to go down.
Ether dominance is hovering around 7%
right now. I believe it's
um its high was around 47% or 43%. Um,
and this is just kind of endemic of what
is happening to the ETH asset right now.
Uh, we saw Galaxy swap out
65,600 ETH and withdraw
752,240 soul from Binance according to
Arkham data. This is uh counterintuitive
to what is actually happening on the
Ethereum blockchain. As we can see, $126
billion dollars of stable coins are
minted on Ethereum. When we look at
treasuries, $4.3 billion of treasuries
are living on Ethereum, as well as
things like commodities, institutional
funds, and private credit. So, I'm not
quite sure what's happening with the
Ethereum narrative right now or what's
happening with the ETH asset, but the
the asset price go down, but Ethereum
activity go up. Um, sticking with Salana
good news, ARC has added two staked
Salas to its tech ETF portfolio and it's
leveraging the staked Salana ETFs from
the Canadian stock market.
And Salana is also seeing one of its
large problem uh large projects in
deepin uh Helium former guest in the
smart economy podcast is hitting
all-time highs for its decentralized
physical infrastructure network
activity. Um the DAO participation via
mobile mobile token validator onboarding
and usesbased rewards are at all-time
highs and some major protocol milestones
include expanding 5G mobile coverage to
over 4,500 radios across 2,000 US
cities. And um this is driving real
world traffic to Helium mobile's $20 a
month unlimited plans which are sold
over in over 3,000 Walmart stores across
the US. So this is uh along with RWAS, I
think deep pin is a narrative that will
slowly continue to keep growing
throughout
2025. In bad news for Salana, uh Meteora
is a DEX on the Salana ecosystem um and
ABC firm. And this is uh there's a
second class action lawsuit in New York
that's being filed against Meteora Labs,
Meteora, Kaiser Labs, and individuals
that misrepresented the meme token. I
think the thing to to pay attention to
here and uh to to squint and read
between the lines is Kaiser Labs and
Meteora have been associated with a
bunch of meme coins that have risen
dramatically and then fallen super
quickly including the Trump and Melania
tokens, the Libra scamcoin that was
launched by uh in conjunction with um
the Argentine president as well as Hakua
Girls Hawk token.
So, keep an eye out for lawsuits that
are going to be falling on uh maybe
Meteora, but but in particular Kelsier
Ventures because this is the firm that's
been associated with a ton of pump and
dumps this year and last year. And
lastly, let's finish on some good news.
Onchain activity. Polygon NFTts are
starting to see an increase in network
activity. They recently surpassed NFT
activity on Ethereum L1. Um the Polygon
based NFT market saw a surge of 20% in
sales over the past 7 days. And we can
just see the networks with NFT sales by
volume. Um uh for Polygon 22.3 million,
Ethereum 19.2, 2, Mythos 14.3, the
Bitcoin ecosystem 14.1 million, and then
Salana was 7.3 million. So, I'm not
going to sit here and say that uh NFTTS
are back, but it's really interesting to
see that it was an RWA NFT collection
that pushed Polygon's network activity
up over the past couple days. Um, and it
was in conjunction with a project called
Courtyard, which is an RWA marketplace
for physical card collections. So, you
can uh buy Pokemon cards, baseball
cards, basketball cards, and own an NFT
that represents that physical card. And
then if you want that card in your
possession, you can actually um redeem
the physical you can redeem the physical
card by burning the NFT and you will get
the physical card and that NFT will no
longer be traded on the marketplace. So
that just about wraps up today's daily
digest. If you want to keep up to date
with what is going on in the smart
economy podcast landscape, head over to
reddit.comr/smarteconomy podcast to keep
up to date with our daily digests, with
our podcast episodes, as well as our
weekly spaces. With all that said,
looking forward to catching you
tomorrow. Cheers.